biblemate_ai.md, before:

# Install BibleMate AI

```
python3 -m venv ai
source ai/bin/activate
pip install -U biblemate biblemateweb biblematedata
```

## Configure AI Backend

Run `ai -ec`, edit the values of `DEFAULT_AI_BACKEND` and `GOOGLEAI_API_KEY`, e.g.:

```
DEFAULT_AI_BACKEND=googleai
GOOGLEAI_API_KEY=<your_gemini_api_key>
```

In addition, make sure ollama is set up and `paraphrase-multilingual` is downloaded, read:

https://github.com/eliranwong/NvidiaJetsonOpenClaw/blob/main/basic_tools.md#install-ollama

## Setup BibleMate Data

```
biblematedata
```

## Edit ~/.bashrc

Add the following lines in `~/.bashrc`

```
# Setup venv path
export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/ai/bin

# BibleMate servers
## web server
start_bmweb() {
  echo "Starting BibleMate AI WEB server ..."
  nohup biblemateweb &
  echo "BibleMate AI WEB server started."
}
### Check if BibleMate WEB server is already running
if ! pgrep -f "/bin/biblemateweb" > /dev/null; then
  start_bmweb
else
  echo "BibleMate AI WEB server is already running."
fi
## mcp mini server
start_bmmcpmini() {
  echo "Starting BibleMate MCP mini server ..."
  nohup bmmcpmini -b googleai -p 33334 &
  echo "BibleMate AI MCP mini server started."
}
### Check if BibleMate MCP mini server is already running
if ! pgrep -f "/bin/bmmcpmini" > /dev/null; then
  start_bmmcpmini
else
  echo "BibleMate AI MCP mini server is already running."
fi
```

On a local machine, add the following line in `~/.bashrc`

```
alias nanobible="open http://$(getent hosts ubuntu.local | awk '{print $1}'):33355"
```

## Configure Custom MCP

Confiure mcp auth token:

Run `ai -ec`, then assign a value to `BIBLEMATE_STATIC_TOKEN`, e.g. `testing` for use in the following example:

Run:

```
cd
mkdir .mcporter
cd .mcporter/
micro mcporter.json
```

Add the following content to the file `mcporter.json`:

Remarks: Replace the token `testing` with your own.

```
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "biblemate": {
      "baseUrl": "http://localhost:33334/mcp/",
      "headers": {
        "Authorization": "Bearer testing"
      }
    }
  },
  "imports": []
}
```

Run:

```
openclaw gateway restart
```

# Create a New Agent and Workspace

`Disable` the telegram bot privacy setinng by sending `/setprivacy` in @BotFather chat and follows the instruction.

Assuming you have installed the [custom skill](openclaw.md#install-custom-skills) `isolated-agent-creator`:

1. Create a telegram group
2. Add the main agent in the group
3. In the newly created group, ask the main agent `What is the current group id`. Copy the group id, e.g. -5888888888.
4. In the main againt chat, send the following message:

```
I created a new Telegram group, with a group id -5888888888. I want you to create an isolated agent bible-study and bind it to that group, so I can talk to the bible-study agent in the group. Configure the bible-study agent to use model `google-gemini-cli/gemini-3-flash-preview`.
```

Commit message:

Add refresh environment variables section and update custom MCP configuration instructions

biblemate_ai.md, after:

# Install BibleMate AI

```
python3 -m venv ai
source ai/bin/activate
pip install -U biblemate biblemateweb biblematedata
```

## Configure AI Backend

Run `ai -ec`, edit the values of `DEFAULT_AI_BACKEND` and `GOOGLEAI_API_KEY`, e.g.:

```
DEFAULT_AI_BACKEND=googleai
GOOGLEAI_API_KEY=<your_gemini_api_key>
```

In addition, make sure ollama is set up and `paraphrase-multilingual` is downloaded, read:

https://github.com/eliranwong/NvidiaJetsonOpenClaw/blob/main/basic_tools.md#install-ollama

## Setup BibleMate Data

```
biblematedata
```

## Edit ~/.bashrc

Add the following lines in `~/.bashrc`

```
# Setup venv path
export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/ai/bin

# BibleMate servers
## web server
start_bmweb() {
  echo "Starting BibleMate AI WEB server ..."
  nohup biblemateweb &
  echo "BibleMate AI WEB server started."
}
### Check if BibleMate WEB server is already running
if ! pgrep -f "/bin/biblemateweb" > /dev/null; then
  start_bmweb
else
  echo "BibleMate AI WEB server is already running."
fi
## mcp mini server
start_bmmcpmini() {
  echo "Starting BibleMate MCP mini server ..."
  nohup bmmcpmini -b googleai -p 33334 &
  echo "BibleMate AI MCP mini server started."
}
### Check if BibleMate MCP mini server is already running
if ! pgrep -f "/bin/bmmcpmini" > /dev/null; then
  start_bmmcpmini
else
  echo "BibleMate AI MCP mini server is already running."
fi
```

On a local machine, add the following line in `~/.bashrc`

```
alias nanobible="open http://$(getent hosts ubuntu.local | awk '{print $1}'):33355"
```

## Refresh Environment Variables

```
source ~/.bashrc
```

## Configure Custom MCP

Confiure mcp auth token:

Run `ai -ec`, then assign a value to `BIBLEMATE_STATIC_TOKEN`, e.g. `testing` for use in the following example:

Run:

```
cd
mkdir .mcporter
cd .mcporter/
micro mcporter.json
```

Add the following content to the file `mcporter.json`:

Remarks: Replace the token `testing` with your own.

```
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "biblemate": {
      "baseUrl": "http://localhost:33334/mcp/",
      "headers": {
        "Authorization": "Bearer testing"
      }
    }
  },
  "imports": []
}
```

Run:

```
openclaw gateway restart
```

# Create a New Agent and Workspace

`Disable` the telegram bot privacy setinng by sending `/setprivacy` in @BotFather chat and follows the instruction.

Assuming you have installed the [custom skill](openclaw.md#install-custom-skills) `isolated-agent-creator`:

1. Create a telegram group
2. Add the main agent in the group
3. In the newly created group, ask the main agent `What is the current group id`. Copy the group id, e.g. -5888888888.
4. Install bible study skill for OpenClaw, run:

```
biblematemcpskill -o
```

5. In the main againt chat, send the following message:

```
I created a new Telegram group, with a group id -5888888888. I want you to create an isolated agent bible-study and bind it to that group, so I can talk to the bible-study agent in the group. Configure the bible-study agent to use model `google-gemini-cli/gemini-3-flash-preview`.
```
