openclaw.md, before:

# Install OpenClaw

Then install OpenClaw:

```bash
npm install -g openclaw@latest
openclaw onboard --install-daemon
```

## Add AI Provider Plugins

Read https://docs.openclaw.ai/concepts/model-providers#google-vertex-antigravity-and-gemini-cli

For Google Antigravity:

```
openclaw plugins enable google-antigravity-auth
openclaw gateway restart
openclaw models auth login --provider google-antigravity --set-default
openclaw gateway restart
```

For Gemini CLI:

```
openclaw plugins enable google-gemini-cli-auth
openclaw gateway restart
openclaw models auth login --provider google-gemini-cli --set-default
openclaw gateway restart
```

## Auth

1. Click the url provided by the onboard process in the Chrome browser on your Pixel Phone.
2. Authenticate with your Google account.
3. Click the "Allow" button to allow OpenClaw to access your Google account.
4. Then, the browser will fail to load the page. This is expected. Don't close the browser yet. 
5. Copy the url from the address bar and paste it in the terminal where you ran the onboard command.
6. Press Enter.
7. The authentication process will complete.

## Configure Azure OpenAI & Claude Models

Set up [Providers](providers.md) according to your needs.

Optional Remove the "models" entry under the main agent and sub-agents, as they limit model selection if the list provided is not exhaustive.

> openclaw gateway restart

## Gateway

Set up [Telegram](telegram.md) as the messaging gateway.

## Skills

Select skills according to your needs. Some skills require their own API keys:

- [Google Places](google_ai_plan.md)
- [Nano Banana](google_ai_plan.md)
- [Notion API](https://www.notion.com/my-integrations)

## Install Custom Skills

```
git clone https://github.com/eliranwong/NvidiaJetsonOpenClaw
cp -r NvidiaJetsonOpenClaw/skills ~/.openclaw/
rm ~/.openclaw/skills/README.md
openclaw gateway restart
```

# Enable Web Search

Create a Brave Search API Key at https://api-dashboard.search.brave.com/app/keys

> openclaw configure --section web

- Enable web_search -> Yes
- Enable web_fetch -> Yes

## Access from Local Machine

> ssh username@ubuntu.local

> openclaw tui

Commit message:

Add optional setup section, document power modes, and enhance installation instructions for tools and skills

openclaw.md, after:

# Install OpenClaw

Then install OpenClaw:

```bash
npm install -g openclaw@latest
openclaw onboard --install-daemon
```

## Add AI Provider Plugins

Read https://docs.openclaw.ai/concepts/model-providers#google-vertex-antigravity-and-gemini-cli

For Google Antigravity:

```
openclaw plugins enable google-antigravity-auth
openclaw gateway restart
openclaw models auth login --provider google-antigravity --set-default
openclaw gateway restart
```

For Gemini CLI:

```
openclaw plugins enable google-gemini-cli-auth
openclaw gateway restart
openclaw models auth login --provider google-gemini-cli --set-default
openclaw gateway restart
```

## Auth

1. Click the url provided by the onboard process in the Chrome browser on your Pixel Phone.
2. Authenticate with your Google account.
3. Click the "Allow" button to allow OpenClaw to access your Google account.
4. Then, the browser will fail to load the page. This is expected. Don't close the browser yet. 
5. Copy the url from the address bar and paste it in the terminal where you ran the onboard command.
6. Press Enter.
7. The authentication process will complete.

## Configure Azure OpenAI & Claude Models

Set up [Providers](providers.md) according to your needs.

Optional Remove the "models" entry under the main agent and sub-agents, as they limit model selection if the list provided is not exhaustive.

> openclaw gateway restart

## Gateway

Set up [Telegram](telegram.md) as the messaging gateway.

## Skills

Install all available builtin skills, except `sag` (You do not need the sag skill. OpenClaw's native tts tool functions correctly on Linux arm64 and can be used for text-to-speech without any additional installation.).

### Install Custom Skills

```
git clone https://github.com/eliranwong/NvidiaJetsonOpenClaw
cp -r NvidiaJetsonOpenClaw/skills ~/.openclaw/
rm ~/.openclaw/skills/README.md
openclaw gateway restart
```

### Audio Transcription

Ask the main agent to set up GPU-accelerated Whisper local CLI, as the Homebrew version uses a bundled CPU-only PyTorch.

With the custom skill installed, ask the main agent to add your preferred transcription order to TOOLS.md, if it is not already in the file `~/.openclaw/workspace/TOOLS.md`.

For example:                                                                   
                                                                               
```markdown                                                                    
### Audio Transcription

- Preferred: `~/.local/bin/whisper-gpu` (GPU-accelerated, Jetson Orin)
- Fallback: `openai-whisper-api` (cloud, if local fails or for complex audio)

Note: GPU Whisper uses PyTorch 2.5 with CUDA on Jetson Orin. Much faster than CPU.                   
```

### API Keys Required for Some Skills

- [Google Places](google_ai_plan.md)
- [Nano Banana](google_ai_plan.md)
- [Notion API](https://www.notion.com/my-integrations)

# Enable Web Search

Create a Brave Search API Key at https://api-dashboard.search.brave.com/app/keys

> openclaw configure --section web

- Enable web_search -> Yes
- Enable web_fetch -> Yes

## Access from Local Machine

> ssh username@ubuntu.local

> openclaw tui
