telegram.md, before:

# Telegram Setup

## Create a Bot Token

Generate a bot token via the Telegram app:

1. Search for **@BotFather**
2. Enter: `/start`
3. Enter: `/newbot`
4. Enter a bot name, e.g. `MyBot`
5. Enter a bot username, e.g. `mybot_bot`

Then, in the OpenClaw web UI, configure the bot token.

## Pairing

After configuring the Telegram bot token, search for your bot (e.g. `@mybot_bot`) from a regular Telegram account and send `Hello` to get a pairing code. Then approve it:

```bash
openclaw pairing approve telegram <PAIRING_CODE>
```

## Create a Telegram Group with a Dedicated Agent and Workspace

This lets you isolate the agent's memory and select the most appropriate model for the task.

1. Ask the main agent to create a new agent with a dedicated workspace.
2. Disable privacy mode for the bot in the **@BotFather** chat so the bot can read all messages in the group:

   ```
   /setprivacy
   @mybot_bot
   Disable
   ```

3. Create a new Telegram group.
4. Add the bot to the group.
5. In the **newly created group chat**, send: `@mybot_bot What is the current group id?`
6. Copy the group ID from the bot's reply.
7. In the **main agent chat** (not the group chat), ask the main agent to bind the newly created agent to the group using the ID from the previous step.
8. Specify the model to use for the agent in the group chat.

Commit message:

Enhance documentation for BibleMate AI and OpenClaw setup, including custom skills installation and isolated agent configuration details.

telegram.md, after:

# Telegram Setup

## Create a Bot Token

Generate a bot token via the Telegram app:

1. Search for **@BotFather**
2. Enter: `/start`
3. Enter: `/newbot`
4. Enter a bot name, e.g. `MyBot`
5. Enter a bot username, e.g. `mybot_bot`

Then, in the OpenClaw web UI, configure the bot token.

## Pairing

After configuring the Telegram bot token, search for your bot (e.g. `@mybot_bot`) from a regular Telegram account and send `Hello` to get a pairing code. Then approve it:

```bash
openclaw pairing approve telegram <PAIRING_CODE>
```

## Create a Telegram Group with a Dedicated Agent and Workspace

This lets you isolate the agent's memory and select the most appropriate model for the task.

Assuming you have installed the [custom skill](openclaw.md#install-custom-skills) `isolated-agent-creator`:

1. Ask the main agent to create a new agent with a dedicated workspace.
2. Disable privacy mode for the bot in the **@BotFather** chat so the bot can read all messages in the group:

   ```
   /setprivacy
   @mybot_bot
   Disable
   ```

3. Create a new Telegram group.
4. Add the bot to the group.
5. In the **newly created group chat**, send: `@mybot_bot What is the current group id?`
6. Copy the group ID from the bot's reply.
7. In the **main agent chat** (not the group chat), ask the main agent to bind the newly created agent to the group using the ID from the previous step, e.g.:

```
I created a new Telegram group, with a group id -5888888888. I want you to create an isolated agent bible-study and bind it to that group, so I can talk to the bible-study agent in the group. Configure the bible-study agent to use model `google-gemini-cli/gemini-3-flash-preview`.
```

8. Specify the model to use for the agent in the group chat.
